have been done. Is there a motion to
approve the minutes? Make the motion to
approve. Motion been moved and seconded.
Is there any question? All in favor say
I. All right. Now it's time to
administer the oath of office to the
board members who were elected uh for
this year.
Uh Mr. Brashier, am I saying that
correctly? Mr. Manning, Mr. Armstrong,
and the chair, Jimmy Towers. Do we do it
from here or want us to go to the
microphone?
Okay, join us at the podium.
[Music]
So you get your pictures.
Good afternoon.
Congratulations. If you'd please raise
your right hand and repeat after me.
In the name and by authority of the
state of Texas,
I state your name. I do solemnly swear
or affirm do solemnly swear that I will
faithfully execute the duties that I
will faithfully exeute the duties of the
office of the office of board member
central Texas college
of the state of Texas of the state of
Texas and will to the best of my ability
the best of my ability preserve preserve
protect and defend the constitution
Constitution and laws of the United
States and of this state. So help me
God. So help me God. Congratulations.
I need you sign that. And I need to come
back
special.
Still
special to just invite the member to the
thing is not updating.
Do we invite them to
Tracy's trying to get your attention?
You can just adjourn this.
Yeah, before we do that
motion to adjurnn. Is there a second?
Motion to adjurnn. Second. All in favor
say I. I. Now turn the page. Invite our
two newest members of the board to join
[Applause]
us. Mr. man.
Come over. How you doing, man? Welcome
to the meeting. All of you two are still
standing. The rest of us will stand as
we prepare for this workshop meeting.
Looking forward to it.
Mr. Wilson, would you lead us in? Please
join me in in the prayer. Dear heavenly
father, thank you for this day. Thank
you for just being with us and guiding
the students. Lord, we pray for wisdom
and guidance. Pray for the new members
that father that you will help them to
make wise decisions. And father, as
always, Father, pro continue to protect
the students and staff and lead us and
guide us. Is your name we pray. Amen.
Amen. Mr. Armstrong, would you lead us,
please, in the flag? Please join me in
the pledge to our nation's flag. I
pledge algiance to the flag of the
United States of America and to the
republic for which it stands. One nation
under God, indivisible with liberty and
justice for all.
Please follow me in honor of the Texas
flag. Honor the Texas
flagged. One state under God. one
indivisible.
Amen. Amen. Thank you.
Thank you for the many guests that we
have had here today. Uh there is also at
this time an opportunity for anyone in
the public to speak to the board. uh for
whatever information you request or for
whatever knowledge you want us to have
uh we ask you
to control your time to three minutes
please. Anyone wishing to do
so. Seeing none and hearing none, we
move to the chancellor's report update.
Thank you, sir. Um I'm going to go a
little bit out of order and begin with
an introduction of our newest employee,
uh Miss Wendy Sled. Would you come
forward? I'm going to share a few facts
about her, a little information, and
then to the podium, and then I will give
you an opportunity to say a few
words. Um, on May 1st, Miss Wendy Sled
assumed the role of chief marketing and
communications officer here at Central
Texas College. She has more than four
decades of experience in professional
communications, journalism, and public
relations. Most recently, Wendy served
as the executive director of
communications for Waco ISD. Prior to
that, she led the Copper Cove
Independent School District's
communications department for nearly a
decade, where she earned statewide
recognition for her strategic
communication initiatives and
storytelling expertise. A former
military spouse for nearly 35 years,
Miss Led's career includes roles across
the United States and Europe, working in
television, radio, newspapers, and
magazines. She's also served as a
political press aid on Capitol Hill in
Washington DC as well as in Virginia and
Oklahoma. Miss Led earned 140 state
Texas School Public Relations
Association awards including three
prestigious Crystal Awards, the
association's top honor. Her
journalistic achievements also include a
regional Edward R. Moro award for
investigative reporting as well as
honors from both Louisiana teachers
unions for her reporting on public
education. Her work has been featured
nationally in Newsweek, CNN and BBC. I
believe in hiring hard and managing easy
and I think that's what we've done.
We'll let her decide whether the easy
part is
Welcome. Thank you for coming. Would you
like to share something with us? Um I
think Dr. Carter said it all pretty
much, but um I thank you for um your
confidence in me. Um please know that
I'll do my very best. Um I don't know
how to do anything under 300%. And so
that's what I will always give and I
hope that just since May 1st you've
noticed an uptick in our media coverage
um both um television and in the
newspaper and um we will continue to do
that. So I always say central Texas
College is a hidden gem. If we don't
tell our own story, who is telling it?
And so that's our responsibility and all
of us including all of you are
ambassadors and spokespersons for this
college. So um please speak out, please
speak often and please be accurate. So
I love it.
[Applause]
Next item, legislative update. Um on the
federal level, the budget reconciliation
as you know is under review and so uh
for that for us our sector community
college sector this is extremely
important. Uh some of the the proposed
changes or proposals in that bill uh
include deep cuts to federal funding for
our students particularly with PEL. So
we'll continue to watch that closely and
report back to you. Um, at the state
level, Senate Bill 2615, uh, which hit
our radar a couple of weeks ago
following our last meeting. It relates
to restricting remote work by employees
of public institutions of higher
education. You can only imagine the
uproar that caused when you talk about
when you talk about online learning. Uh
so we have so many academic and we're
it's not distinctive to Central Texas
College or unique to us but uh we have
um many academic and workforce programs
that are completely online not to
mention you know the the uh some of the
other uh business that we conduct online
and so this is huge. Uh we have many
faculty that do not even work in this
state let alone our our region. So uh to
ask those folks to come back to campus
is virtually and to work from main
campus is virtually impossible. So of
course it was met with much opposition.
We've engaged TAC and the CEOs are uh
working with the with Ray Martinez our
CEO there uh to determine whether or not
we would you know provide any
testimonial. But in the meantime there
was a meeting today and it was canceled
if that wasn't the only item on the
agenda but it was cancelled. In the
meantime, uh, community college
presidents and chancellors such as
myself, we have reached out to our
legislators to let them know that this
is a very bad bill and that the, uh, the
implications for all of us, uh, are
significant. So, uh, we'll keep an eye
on that and keep you
updated. Senate Bill 1786, we've been
talking about that all session. It will
allow transfers to private and
independent colleges and universities to
count toward the community college uh,
finance outcome. And so that is
currently on the governor's desk waiting
for
signature. Senate Bill 1569 relating to
the availability of certain personal
information. And Miss Briggs, you can
chime in at any time. Um relating to the
availability of certain personal
information of a member of the governing
board of an institution or CEO of an
institution of higher education was sent
to the governor on May 13th for
signature. The uh the goal of this bill
is to enhance privacy pro protections
for the board and for the CEO, college
president or
chancellor. Senate Bill 2529
uh raises the voting threshold. I think
we talked about this uh a couple of
meetings ago. It raises the voting
threshold for local governments to
approve certain tax rate increases and
general bond obligate obligation bond
issuances. 60% under this bill, 60% of
the governing body is required to issue
bonds and
75% of the governing body is required to
approve a tax rate that exceeds the
voter approval
rate. So, those are the the highlights
for now. Uh, as you know, we're about to
wrap up the session. I don't, you know,
there may be a special session
afterwards, but uh but uh we'll keep
we'll keep an eye on things and report
back to you um next week, which will be
the last uh meeting that we have before
the session
ends. Um let's see, fiscal year 2026
budget update. Doug, you feel free to
jump in at any time, but basically we
departmental budgets were, as we
previously mentioned, were due on May
1st. So, uh, Doug, along with the
administration, we are working through
those expenditure requests, um, to
ensure that we we have everything that
we need. May not include everything that
we want, but everything that that we
need. Uh, appropriations, we're
expecting to have that information by
the end of this month. We don't have it
now, so it's kind of difficult to do a a
comprehensive budget update at this time
without that as well as taxes. I do
believe that um, well, Dr. Dr. Garrett's
going to give Where's Dr. Garrett at?
Okay, there she is. She'll give us
she'll give us an update on enrollments
for fall. But in terms of uh tuition
revenue and planning for the budget, we
will continue to do what we've done and
that's um you know budget with a flat
budget flat for that. We don't want to
escalate those numbers unnecessarily and
and uh give an inaccurate picture of the
budget. Of course, the goal is to
present you with a a balanced budget.
So, Doug, do you have anything to add to
that?
Okay. Dr. Garrett,
she's not at her side.
Well, good afternoon, new board members.
I'm I'm Robin Garrett. I'm the vice
chancellor of academic and student
success.
Um, the chancellor asked me to just give
you a quick little update on the summer
session. Um we are two weeks out of
starting. We have two weeks left of
registration and um we have surpassed
the 2023
uh enrollment numbers. So that's great
news. And for the 2024, we're just short
under just under 500 enrollments. So
we're going to definitely have plenty of
time to surpass that. So we're looking
really really good for summer one.
Summer two, it's still still climbing.
We're we're working on summer two. And
you'd mentioned fall. We don't um
registration doesn't open till June for
fall yet. So, we don't have any numbers
for that just yet, but we're we're
excited about the two weeks left and as
you know, students tend to wait till the
last minute. So, we're very very busy.
We're in the throws of registration
right now. Any questions? Just a
comment. I I I saw an article about from
a young lady, one of our students, and
um she was just addressing how her
experience here had been so positive. Um
that was just rewarding for me to know
that um students, some students still
see us that way. And it's also was a
message to those that will be coming. I
thought it was appropriately where is
she?
uh appropriately timed um for
registration where I don't know if any
of you saw it or not, but you should
look it up online. Um and Dr. Carter,
you knew you know her because when I
sent the article to you, you knew the
name. Yes. Um so I just think that doing
things like that and reminding students
that this is a great place to start.
Yes. It's affordable and all all the
things that we talk about. So that was
great to see the the article about that
the other day. Wonderful. Thank you.
Thank you for what you do. Thank you.
Thank you. Anything else? Thank you,
ma'am. Thank you.
Thank you, Dr. Carter. Anybody questions
for Dr.
Carter? Next item is a new program. Miss
Martin
had trouble finding you.
Good afternoon everyone. Um I'm Tracy
Martin from the computer information
technology and systems department and
I'm the department chair. So the two
programs that we're um asking your
approval of is the first one is software
development and programming. Um, this is
a AAS or an associate of applied science
in software development and programming.
It's designed to prepare our students
for entrylevel careers in the dynamic
and rapidly evolving field of software
development. It'll provide a strong
foundation in programming logic,
software design, and application
development. and they will gain some
hands-on experience with industry ready
or industry standard programming
languages and develop tools and project
methodologies. Um some of the jobs that
they'll be looking at um right now in
that field it's expected to grow about
17% from 2023 to 2020 to
2033. So it's it's a significant um
outpacing in the average growth for all
the
occupations. Um so let's see
uh the other program that we are asking
approval for
I'm sorry it's two they're two separate
agenda items. Oh I'm sorry. Okay. Anyone
have any question about the first item?
The first item. Yeah I have a a question
as I'm reviewing this one. I think it's
a great idea. If we're not thinking uh
automation of computers, then we're
decades behind the power curve, right?
Um with with regard to the advisory
board, u what I got from looking at that
is it's it seems like really Collehen
and Fort Kavaso centric. And I'm just
wondering if we need to reach out to any
of our uh other local communities in in
like the ISDS or the local banks that
have IT type uh uh responsibilities as
well to maybe pull some of those folks
in uh to be advisors and not only to
gain from their knowledge but to ensure
that the various communities are also
bought in to what we're doing and they
know what we're doing. sometimes may
wonder like, oh, what's CTC doing? Just
like we may wonder, well, what's this
town X doing? Uh, if we don't reach out
and and and and kind of pull them in to
what we do, uh, and I'm all happy to to
recommend names and all that. I've
cleared with a couple folks, hey, can I
throw your name under the bus here? And,
uh, uh, one I haven't heard back from,
but, uh, he he doesn't live locally. Uh
he's a extended family member who's a
white hat hacker. Okay. Uh in a big
highpaying job and he graduated college
about four years ago maybe. I'd be happy
to um entertain that. We do have a
couple of people that are from um
Tridium which is also in Tennessee too.
So we have some people there too, but we
haven't reached out to a lot of other
people. So, I'd be happy to take Yeah, I
think it just maybe intuitively that it
might be a good idea that we have this
taxing base that we're a part of and
search within that taxing base so that
they kind of get oh well that's what CT
is my mortgage goes to this person too
or this entity and when we uh invite
them then they they kind of get the oh
that's what we do. Okay. So that's my
recommendation and we'll have to we'll
have to approve this program next week
before you start doing some of those
things. Right. Thank you, Miss Martin.
Dr. Cloon wants to answer. Good
afternoon. I just want to extend thank
you for that uh observation. It's been
something that we've been working on
since I arrived nine months ago. We are
in the process of redis um reimagining
our employer engagement model
completely. Cool. um trying to move away
from the the advisory board model that's
not as engaging and creating tiers of
partnership. Uh we're piloting that
right now. Miss Martin's doing amazing
job uh with the launch of our IT academy
at Fort Kabazos. So you will be seeing
um uh that change and a more diversity
and a deeper um engagement level of the
employers. And so I just want to make
sure you were aware of the other things
that we're working on broadly even
beyond her program for all of
instruction. Perfect. Thank you. Will
this also include maybe job placement at
the end? The the that that that would be
a tracking model to be able to track it.
Right. So we're looking at basically a
bronze uh silver, gold, and platinum
level of engagement. And the higher the
level of engagement, the more
involvement where when you're at the
platinum level, you're doing
apprenticeships and you're doing
externships and and things of that
nature. If you're bronze, you may come
in and do a panel with the class or that
kind of thing. If you're at gold, you'll
be doing project based with projects
with us in the classroom supporting the
curriculum. So, we're really excited
about it. I'm giving you all a little
preview. Um though, we look forward to
sharing that with you more. I'm excited
about that. Thank you. Thank you. Anyone
else question?
And my concern is the same concern I
have about anytime we're implementing a
new project, a new uh plan, a degree
plan. Have you already Well, once we
approve it, I'm assuming it will be
approved.
Um, is there an instrument with which
you'll measure its success?
And I've been saying this ever since
I've been on the
board. We have to eliminate programs
that are not effective.
[Laughter]
She's not done with you yet. you might
as well stay.
But I just we um like all institutions
and all organizations
uh I need us to always look back do a
look back um a reflection on is this
program actually working? Is are people
or students enrolling in this program?
Is there some ch are there some changes
that we need to make? But when the
program is when you're asking for
approval, I'm just speaking for one
board member. I would like to see us
come with an evaluation
um plan already in place.
Does that make sense? Yes, sir. With the
job.
[Laughter]
So, we already have an evaluation
process in place. We have to have it to
be accredited. Um what we want to work
on and the plan is to spend this next
academic year. Basically, I've declared
from my vantage point as a vice
chancellor a moratorum on new programs
except for the most urgent of programs
based upon employer um outreach which
will give us an opportunity to actually
fully go through the process um that we
have in place to evaluate the
effectiveness. I would like to see a
report card that comes in that talks
about completion, retention, um how
we're doing with the wages because we
could be graduating students, but if
they're not getting a family sustaining
wage, then that means that we still need
to think about that. We don't want to
graduate students where they don't have
a job that pays well. So, it's coming
and this next year is going to be a lot
of work, but the academic leaders are up
to the task and I look forward to
getting your feedback on the first
report cards that will be coming to you
and be available um for future um
requests. Thank you. You're welcome.
Thank you, M. Anyone else? Okay, on the
second the second item we'll be looking
at for next week. Okay, so that one is
the data and software systems.
This one is also an associate of applied
science and its pathway is designed to
equip individuals with the skills needed
to manage, maintain and secure data
systems for businesses and
organizations. It's more like a database
kind of um program where we're trying to
teach them a little bit more about
program or um databases.
Question.
Thank you very much. Appreciate it.
Next item on the agenda is uh contract
renewal with lot burning and company.
Mr. Bon
uh okay the first renewal is uh with lot
Vernon uh this will be the uh last
auction year on their contract. Uh very
pleased with their services. I think
everybody's familiar with them
and I would recommend that uh that this
be accepted next week at 74,000.
Any questions of this? How long will
this extension last? Second. We will
have to go out uh probably next
December, January, we'll go out with
another proposal for to do this all over
again. Okay. So, this is their last
year. Okay.
Is there an
opportunity? Uh I've forgotten what
we've done in the past. Um so is there
an opportunity if that's who we who the
only person only company that bids would
we do we have the authority to approve
continuing to work with them? Yes. Yeah.
There there was a while back uh there
was a federal law that tried
to restrict that called Sarbain Oxley
and uh but it it it was just a
recommendation and I tell you one thing
that the that the that the act missed
was the experience of an AR and that's
big big time important. So we'll see who
who who uh sends in a proposal when when
it when it comes time. Anyone else?
Thank you. While you're there, uh you
have another contract renewal
with Bank of America. Once again, uh
pleased with them and all three of these
have signed this new this new statement
that the state's requiring now
regarding boycotting Israel,
uh firearms, uh being a part of Sudan or
Iran, and four other things that are
required. Now, they've all all these
three have have signed this statement.
Uh with Bank of America, uh I'm going to
estimate this is going to be between 70
and 80,000 a year. I don't know because
it depends on the transactions that we
that we send through there. But we're
pleased with uh their online system,
their their response to our request, and
we're just real happy with it. So, I
would recommend that you approve this
also.
Questions? And then with Hilltop
Securities and with Hilltop uh we have a
we've had a
long probably about a five or six year
relationship with with Hilltop. They
advise me on
uh what to
buy. We don't ever sell anything but
it's mainly when we when we have
available cash
u what to buy and then they so it serve
as the broker on that. And this one will
probably not go over 50. It'll probably
be somewhere around 40 35 to 40, but it
depends on it's another one of those
depends on the size of the portfolio.
There's a percentage that's applied to
the portfolio. So I I can't there's not
an exact number to say between 35 and
40. Are they the only vendor for this or
is there other This one is continuation.
Okay.
Yeah. Um, with this one and the the Bank
of America, both
uh, one of the things I like to do is
try to get local as much as we can. And
I'm sure there's a lot of machinations
that drive us to use a larger firm like
Bank of America or Hilltop. I believe
they're out of Dallas or uh, this firm
that we deal with is out of Austin and
they are they're heavy in public funds.
Okay. Um just uh I guess my thought
whether uh if there's a local capacity
I'd like to research those uh just okay
why not that versus why this too. Okay
and just if it's the best thing going
then I'm good with it. I just want to
make sure that we how good it is right
now. Okay. They they understand our
business. They understand our our
investment policy and at this point in
time I think they are the best. Okay.
and they also deal with a lot of other
clients that are in public funds with
Bank of America. I'm not too sure how
many banks out there can handle what we
do. Okay. Just for the record, we uh
we've processed this before and I've
been in conversation with some of the
local bankers and that's exactly the
right answer is that not many banks in a
in the world can handle as much of a
broad spectrum as we have. But Okay.
Well, yeah, that's my education here for
today. The other thing I I would like,
if I may, I'd like to add for for the
last these three items that Mr. Barton
is presenting, we followed the state's
procurement process. So, it's it's kind
of like with our travel, you know, for
the last 20 years, only one one company
bids our travel. Um, and very few people
uh or companies bid these items, but we
we solicit these proposals in accordance
with statute and our local policies. And
that's what yields what we have before
you today.
Anyone else questions, comments? Thank
you, sir. Miss
Jordan, group term life insurance.
Good afternoon. Holly Jordan, the chief
human resources officer. And Miss Coley
mentioned earlier how CTC is a great
place for students. It's also a great
place for employees. And one of the
things that makes uh this such a great
place for employees is some of our
benefits. And this is what I want to
talk to you about uh this afternoon. And
this is um we have been offering the
college has been providing life
insurance to employees and to a group of
retirees since
1970. And this is a request to continue
that. This would be a new contract, a
new three-year contract with a a new
vendor. Um but it is uh we issued an RFP
um and we received two responses and
this um is a request
to continue the coverage. Let me go go
over it a little bit with you. Um the
life insurance for employees uh
provides insurance up to 15 their salary
up to
150,000 and then accidental death and
dismemberment two times their salary up
to
200,000. Um that coverage is relatively
inexpensive for our employees. Um we
have a group of retirees that we cover
and that price tag is a little higher
actually three times as much as the uh
actually four times as much as the
employees. Um, but we do have 222
retirees that are covered on that and we
have a very small number of employees
that are currently working with this
that are eligible to continue that
coverage because before my time in 1993,
we realized the retiree coverage was
pretty expensive. So, we stopped it. So,
for many of us in this room, we're not
eligible for that retiree coverage. But
there's a few employees that have been
with this prior to 93 that will get that
upon their retirement. Um
the let me give you a little of the 222
retirees the average age of our retirees
is 79 and I don't know if you know that
the average life expectancy
um is
78. So our retirees are doing good. that
they're enjoying a fruitful retirement.
So, thank you for that, H.
Um, and so I am here today uh or
actually will be next week to request um
a new contract with Oaks. Um it's a
company that we've done a number of
references on. Um and the service and
the u the coverage is robust. So, I will
come to you next week requesting that.
Uh the total cost would be um a little
over 161,000 or a little over 160.
Questions? Question. So these 222
um we just carry them and until
Yes. Yes. What is the I'm sorry. What is
the amount of coverage that we carry
them under? they it's their it's one
times their annual salary whenever they
separated up to a h 100,000. Okay.
Because I know the state does it a
little bit different. Well, I will tell
you what we implemented u last I guess
in 22 was the same age reduction
schedule as the state of Texas does. So,
um, as our retirees get older, their
benefits actually decrease, but that's
the standard. Um, prior in 22, a couple
of the insurance providers wouldn't even
give us a quote because they said our,
uh, reduction schedule was ridiculous.
So,
uh, we went with what the state of Texas
which is 5,000. So, yeah. Anyone else
have questions? Thank you. Thank you.
Next item on the agenda is
uh the presentation of a closed circuit
surveillance camera. Miss Lewis.
Hi everyone. I'm filling in for Miss
Lewis. I'm Melanie Bach. I'm the dean of
career and technical instruction for
those of you who are new. As you might
imagine, it's important to have video
surveillance of the child development
center. And for some time, our cameras
have not been fully functional. And so,
we're requesting to purchase a system
that will um work not only inside but
outside as well um on playground
equipment um and inside where we can
have sound and also the ability to re
reverse and see what's happened. Um it's
an important thing. We've had a couple
of instance where we've had strangers um
outside the fence lobbying. We've had a
couple of things thrown over the fence.
So, we want to be sure to protect
students above all the children. And
that's our request.
I think you will remind us next week
about the price. You know what it is off
hand? I believe it's just under $23,000.
Thank you. Anyone else questions? Thank
you, ma'am. Thank you.
Next item agenda is appointment of a
board member to the CTC foundation
board. Uh General Rever, you are
representing the board. Yes. And we have
two two places. So the selection of a
second place, can I offer this
suggestion? Those of you who are current
or new board members, uh if you're
interested in being the second board
member to serve with the foundation as
well, uh give some thought to that. And
next week as we actually vote on that
issue, if somebody steps up to volunteer
or if you have questions about what that
means, you can speak with General Weaver
after we get through. But uh it's our
responsibility and our privilege to have
some two members of the board serve on
the foundation as well. Uh I say one
thing about it, the uh the college picks
up the tab for the foundation. It's one
of those unique things that we have.
Um, so the
college director is a college employee,
not a foundation employee. And the idea
there is it gives us more flexibility to
give out more scholarships for students.
And that's what we're here for is to
bring in students.
So, an obligation you have as a as a
elected board member to also serve
simultaneously on the foundation board
is you're expected as an individual to
donate $1,000 a year or arrange to have
$1,000
donated for your cause. Now, some of you
have been on the board before, so you
understand what I'm talking about. It's
not cheap, but on the other side of the
coin, it's a dedication uh that you're
willing to serve and you're willing to
help the college. So, just keep that in
mind. It's all a volunteer. You don't
get reimbursed for it. Okay. Amen.
You get a good meal.
That's where I'll ask the chancellor for
a memory. Uh what was the round number
total of scholarships was given out this
year through the foundation? Uh just
over I think it was 300 3004 I was say
316 but it was over
$300,000 and if I can plug shamelessly
uh the portal will reopen on June 15th
for 30 days because we have in excess of
$100,000 net revenue from our
fundraising events.
Good place to put it plug in. Rex, thank
you for that. Yeah. Next item on the
agenda from our attorney, Miss Briggs,
uh the board document revision.
Just to set the story straight for the
rest of you that we as a board have
decided that we need to go through our
board documents and revise them or at
least evaluate them. And so we have
assigned our attorney to test
us or or inform us. Challenge accepted,
sir. Uh so a as you mentioned we'll
start going through the board policies.
There are 23 board documents on the
website. Um the first thing and you'll
notice it in this first one I'll go over
when you go through those documents
they're not all policies. Some of them
are resolutions. So for example um when
you pass the budget or when you pass the
uh tax rate those are done as
resolutions and those aren't policies
that need to be reviewed every in this
process. Um, so in the sense that it's a
little confusing the way that they look
on the website, what Dr. Carter and I
have spoken about is to divide them into
two columns to have policies on one side
and resolutions on the other. So if if
anyone has any objections to that, let
me know. But that that's the intent
going forward. So knowing that and there
are 23 documents listed now we won't
review all 23 because the budget
document the um as I said the tax
document you recently passed a document
I'm sorry a resolution to support the
legislative intent of TAC
that doesn't need to be reviewed as a
policy. So, the number is a little bit
smaller than we may have originally
done, but our first adventure in will be
two policies I brought for you today.
And I apologize. I'm not completely sure
what one of the policies looks like in
your packet. Debbie can see it the way I
intended it. I could not see it the way
I intended it, which is why I resent it
yesterday. Um, hopefully you can see
some markup on it. If not, I'm happy to
send it again. But the first one is
policy 370 which is honors and
recognitions. And this is the policy
um basically for naming facilities,
chairs, things like that. The main
change with this is something I just
spoke about. This was listed as a
resolution, but as you read it, it's
actually a policy. So a lot of the
formatting changes that I've proposed
are changing it from a resolution to an
actual standing policy. Um and so where
there are now sections that's just the
format you have for your board document
um policies. Um there was also
uh in my in my review there were some
things that the title didn't match what
was in the paragraph. So I've renamed
some things just to be consistent.
That's just a way that I review things.
You'll see that as we go through this
process. I I love to review a document.
It is my favorite thing in the
world and the laughter will tell you
others know it. Um, one question for
discussion is on the it should be on the
second page but it's under section two
paragraph B and this is about the
requirements for G gift receipt prior to
confirming a new facility name. Um, and
what it says now is that CTC will make
no firm commitment to the naming or even
the construction of a new facility until
all funds have been raised and or the
board of trustees has approved the
project. Um, the question I wanted to
pose to you is whether and or is
appropriate. Um, so what that means is
that the college could commit to naming
something before the board has actually
even approved the project with that or
in there. And so if it said and both of
those things would need to happen before
you would name um a
facility. And it made a difference in my
mind. If it doesn't make a difference to
you, I'm happy to leave it the way it
is. It makes a difference. Uh it does
early in my time on the board, we had an
issue where a non-board member in
well-meaning made a commitment to
someone on this particular subject and
we as a board were projected
to vote to approve it after it had
already been committed and I think the
funds would already were already
provided and I became the black sheep in
the family as I voted no and was
criticized that criticism and rolls off
my back but was criticized because I had
voted against the contributor and that
wasn't my point. I was voting because we
were violating the policy that we have.
So I think it makes a difference as well
where we or yes I think in some respect
it it it could feel as though the
board's hands are tied because of
something that happened before you had
an opportunity to even review the
project. So um I can change that to and
if everyone agrees I should have started
with this as well. My intent is to get
your feedback today and whatever changes
we talk about today, I can bring it back
next week for you to approve. We'll pick
up a couple new policies next month and
just keep going through that process.
So, if if you have any other changes
besides something I bring up, but other
than that, um almost all uh formatting
changes in that
policy and title
changes. Are there any questions about
that policy?
370. Okay.
The other policy is this very short one,
policy 427 on sponsorships
and this one used some varying terms and
I believe
um we I I changed up some of the terms
to be consistent through the policy. Um
but the one question on this one is on
the second page just before the adopted
and approved language. it it gives the
board the discretion to allocate the 85%
of the total dollar amount budgeted for
sponsorship and then it says the
remaining 15% may be awarded by the
chancellor that leaves a little bit of
potential for a gap in funding. So if if
for example the board only allocated
75% the chancellor can only allocate
15%. So, it's not clear what the intent
is for that remaining 10%. If if another
request came in, would the chancellor
need to bring that to the board or is it
you only go to 75% and you're
finished? And I don't know that it's
happened when we we talked about it, but
it it does feel like there is potential
for a little bit of a gap there.
So, any what's your recommendation?
Um I read it in my mind I read it as
your threshold is 85% that the the two
numbers are hard numbers so that if the
chancellor has met the 15% and there's
and you didn't reach your 85 that those
requests would be intended to come back
to the board. Correct. That's that's
what I see. Okay. I and I think if I
will say if asked today if this
situation happened today that's what I
would advise the chancellor. I think you
need to take that to the board. So, my
interpretation would have been that, but
um I'm happy to kind of put some
language in there to clear that up, but
any remaining any any unallocated funds
originally by the board because the
board does them all in one setting
typically, unless it hits I think is
there a $5,000 Do you see a $5,000
figure in the policy? I kind of remember
2500. That's what it is.
um then I bring that to the board. So it
there there are instances where I would
bring something to the board like most
recently uh I brought to you an A USA
sponsorship of $5,000. That's why I
remember $5,000. So anything above that
2500 will be brought back to the board
for approval. Yes. And that's already in
the policy. Is there an annual call for
uh folks to come to us wanting some form
of sponsorship? Yes. And that's that's
in here. And that's actually one of the
changes. Thank you for reminding me. The
policy currently says that um that
they're submitted beginning September
1st and that the the proposed list for
sponsorships goes to the board for
consideration in October. Um but what
has been happening in practice is it's
August. Those come to the board in
August. Okay. typically with the budget.
That's good.
Is there a need to address the gap or
no? You just think that that clears the
I think this was more of an opportunity
for me to hear what you all think it
meant. Um, I I can I think there is it
hasn't happened, so it's not it's not a
terribly pressing issue, but I think it
I can put some Yes, I can put some
language in there. Um, understanding if
that that's the intent of the board that
anything above 15% is beyond the
chancellor's perview that it comes back.
I can add that language for next week.
Yes.
I really wanted to hear what your
thoughts were on it before I propose
some language, but I will have it for
you in your packet for next week.
Agree. And those are the two policies I
have. Any questions? Well done. Thank
you.
Next item on the agenda is to recommend
any topics for upcoming agenda items.
Uh
uh I just want to say hey to anyone who
hadn't applied for a scholarship please
apply for a scholarship because it is
available. Also um been pushing it hard
to bring in more students and I think
everyone knows about a student out there
who who's not sitting on a couch at
home. Get them enrolled. Get them push
them. Let's go. And it's good to see
Impact Aid out here today. You guys
always do a great job represent this
represent us well and I just want to say
thank you for what you do and continue
to do it. So we also got some other
representatives here. So good to see
you. It's good to see I tell everybody
this this this auditorium should be
filled every time because it's important
things going on and not not just the
city just not in this area but in Corell
County. as everything's going on and we
are a team, one team, one fight and we
got to continue to push forward. That's
all I have.
Mr. Manning, welcome to the board. Thank
you. Well, this is the time in which you
have something to say that you would
like for us to know about. Okay. Well,
uh I'd like to say I'm glad to be back
on campus. So I spent four years on
campus uh going to CTC and then uh
American Technological University and u
I want I won't say that every minute and
time that I spent on campus was
productive but uh because when my mom
would make me go to class on Monday and
we didn't want to go I did spend some
Monday mornings sleeping in my car
before before I went ahead and went to
school. But anyway, it it is I have a I
have a heart for CTC and uh during the
campaign I talked about making CTC a
part of your life and uh it's been a
part of mine and so I look forward to my
role here and uh I'm I'm uh thanking the
voters and also offering the public an
opportunity to give us input and also I
look forward to being a a good um PR
person for this for this college and uh
And I think uh I think that's my role
and I think uh I'll be glad to tell my
story to any student that wants to hear
it. And I've already been pitching high
school students to stay home, stay home
for two years and figure out what you
want to do at CTC. So thank you.
Say thank you to welcome our two new
board members and I hope you enjoy it as
much as I've enjoyed it and get out and
get the work done.
Mr. Brushier. Yes. Am I saying it right?
Yes. We're all close enough. Okay. Yeah.
Well, I thank you all for uh coming out
and seeing me today. I appreciate those
of you that came by. Um I look to catch
up on everything we have going on here
and working with the chancellor and
doing everything we can to better this
place to what full potential is. Thank
you. Wonderful. Wonderful. Thank you,
Eric. Uh welcome to our new board
members. Uh it's a it's a dynamic event
here being on the board. You you get to
know a lot of folks. Uh and uh it's a
time to relish your opportunities with
each other. And for the former board
members, uh I've developed a great
relationship with y'all. And it it
doesn't end here. Uh we're neighbors.
We're friends. And uh this is how this
board evolves over time. And we all get
better in the process. So thank you all.
And thank you all.
Welcome to both of you. Uh it's a labor
of love. It requires a lot of
thoughtfulness allowing these people to
do their jobs and us to be supportive.
And we all have one vote that will uh
suffice. Uh, but I want to say to my
colleagues that are that I've worked
with uh all this time. I know we're
going to be uh reorganizing the board
and I won't be here next week. I'm going
to be out of town. Um, but I want to
thank you for your vote of confidence.
Uh, some of you have asked if I'm
interested. I feel like where I am is
where I need to be as a secretary. I am
not interested in moving to another
position. I learned when I was KISSD
president for three years. I was on the
board for 11 years. I learned
that in this seat I have more
opportunities to be who I am and to say
what I need to say and to be true to
myself than that chancellor position
does. I am not interested in changing.
So I want to say that to my colleagues
and to the audience. It it wouldn't be
an oversight if my colleagues didn't uh
if they mentioned uh me moving to
another position or placed me in a
position and I'm not here. Would that be
a mess? But um but I just want to say um
when I was the president of KISSD
board, I never cried so much and prayed
as much as I have in a volunteer job.
That's a tough job, that chancellor
position. So, I'm I'm not interested and
I can do more good sitting right here in
this chair and I'll be sitting here in
for a little while longer. Thank you.
Make reference to our attorney. Is it
okay to campaign for position as a board
member of the week before we actually
vote?
No. No. No. No.
Thank you, Secretary.
May I say to all of you who came today
for a special reason, that is to affirm
the two new candidates. Uh you're always
welcome and we always have this much fun
and we seldom occasionally just because
it's more fun. We do argue about some
things, but as Miss Kohley has said, we
are seven independent individual people.
I just have the loudest voice because of
this chair I sit in. But I have no more
authority, no more value than the rest
of these. uh in fact sometimes a lot
less than the rest of this and so uh be
welcome. This is your community college
and we want to serve you who are the
taxpayers as well as the students who
attend here. And with that we're
adjourned until the meeting next week.
Nope. Sit back down Wendy.
the board meeting next week on the 17th
at 1 p.m. and then the board workshop
for June on the 17th. Now we're wrong
date, sir. 27th next week. See, that's
what that's why they like me so much in
this job. I've always give them
something to laugh about. As she said,
now we're